My Experience at NSS

	When I joined IITB, I wondered if they gave opportunities for us to do some work for the development of the society around us. Then came NSS, and without any second thoughts, I joined Educational Outreach because I knew that I would get a chance to teach small kids and it would be the nicest thing that I would have done. I didn't just want to do something, I wanted to do something to make people smile. But to my disappointment (which was a little though), I was allotted to LYV. I knew my work, and started working towards it. The biggest challenge was to get a quiet place. Hostel rooms were out of question. Some or the other guy would shout in the background and the sentence would have to be recorded again. After hours of narrating and editing, I made my first audiobook by 
sitting in the mess after midnight. Although my work was good (as said by Siri), but I didn't feel satisfied by my work. I also found Audacity as a little tough at first. My first experience as a book reader didn't go so well. Soon after that, I had some pains in my throat. I couldn't complete my second assignment. It was a big setback for me. Apart from doing "jugaad" for the mic and headset, I need to take care of my throat as well. Siri told me not to take too much stress about it. Now I'm working on my third assignment which is a 50-page long assignment to record. From my experience till now, I guess LYV is good, but its not meant for me. I haven't seen any child or any person listening my recording and giving feedback. I love normal teaching and I wish someday I will be teaching small kids as well. 

So, my journey at NSS was a mixed experience. I had good times reading and enjoying the story myself and hard times arranging for the mic and taking care of my throat problems. I would look forward to more such opportunities, especially in teaching students. That's why I preferred EO over events, Green Campus and all. I hope my further journey at NSS to be a memorable and fruitful experience.


